🚀 Section 3: Key AI Techniques

🎯 ML

ML algorithm performs better with better quality of data. The algorithm learns to recognize patterns in the training data. 
Its goal is to solve problems on unseen data. A simple model with lots of good data is better than a complex model with inadequate data.
It is crucial to develop robust AI systems that can handle diverse data challenges and evolve with them.

🎯 Supervised and Unsupervised learning:

- supervised = trained on labelled data. 
applications can be either classification or prediction.
classification: if data was "is this image a dog or not" then it will classify unseen data as dog or not.
prediction: estimating house price based on house features. it has historic data and will predict a number. (this is also called regression task)

- unsupervised = trained on unlabelled data; but we give a set of rules to the machine.
we tell the machine what our desired outcome is, and let it figure out by itself how to get there.
this is called reinforcement learning. basically model learns thru trial and error. 

🎯 Deep Learning:

It allows machines to learn by processing the input information in stages (layers).
In the context of neural networks, each layer of neurons represents a transformation of input data at varying levels of complexity.

🚀 Section 4: Important AI branches

🎯 Robotics

It deals with design, construction, operation and use of machines that can perform human like tasks automatically.
Mechanical engineers construct the machines.
Electronics and electrical engineers add mechanisms to control and operate that machine.
AI developers help build the algorithm to reflect the actions and control of the machine. 
Hence robotics is interdisciplinary.

🎯 Computer vision

If AI functions as the brain, then computer vision is its eyes. Input is images and videos. There are 4 main families of computer vision models:
📌 CNNs (convolutional neural networks):
  - great for working with high dimensional data such as image data.
  - they are great at organizing the elements in an image based on their importance and depth in the image (near v/s far).

📌 Transformers
  - transformer architecture. (more on this later)

📌 GANs (Generative Adversarial Networks)
  - basically these create lifelike images.

📌 U-NETs
  - used in medical image segmentation


🎯 Generative AI

Generative AI = The type of AI which can generate new content is called generative AI.

📌 LLM (large language model)
  - this is the foundational technology behind ChatGPT
  - they are trained on vast text volumes learning word relationships

📌 Diffusion models
  - generate images and videos

📌 GANs (Generative Adversarial Networks)
  - compares two algorithms
  - one creates content and other judges its realism

📌 Neural Radiance
  - AI for 3D modelling

📌 Hybrid Model
  - combines LLM + GAN creating a powerful content generation system
